##Identification of b-jets produced in heavy-ion collisions with neural network(s)
#Supervisor: dr Dominik Derendarz
#The ATLAS Experiment Department (NZ14), Dominik.Derendarz@ifj.edu.pl


Heavy-ion collisions at the LHC provide a unique opportunity for the study of the matter at the extreme
conditions. For the brief moment after collision of two lead nuclei their constituents form a system with very
high temperature and energy density. These conditions allow for the phase transition to the quark-gluon plasma
(QGP) state which then cools down and goes back to the hadronic matter state that we can observe in the
detector. Independently of the QGP formation, the hard scattering of quarks or gluons is very likely to happen
in the heavy-ion collision. The products of this hard interaction will then evolve in the presence of the QGP
medium that will typically lead to reduction of their initial energy. The details of the energy loss mechanism is
one of the most interesting open questions in the heavy ion physics field right now.


To address this question our group in the ATLAS experiment department is working on the measurement of
the productions of b-jets, i.e. the collimated group of particles originating from a single parton, in this case
a b-quark. The hadronization of a b quark within a jet produces a b-hadron which propagates a measurable
distance before decaying and makes it possible to distinguish from the other jets that are produced close to
the interaction region. To identify b-jets we use a deep feed-forward neural network that takes as an input the
properties of the secondary vertices and impact parameter of tracks found within a jet.


During this project we will be using MC simulation of ATLAS response to train the neural network to recognise
b-jets and investigate some of the network properties like, inputs discriminating power and their correlations,
how the details of the network architecture impacts its final performance. Finally we can have a look at the
real data recorded by ATLAS during 2018 and select some b-jets.
